Hello again.
In this segment,
we're going to talk about the inverted
index and how it's constructed.
An inverted index is the key data
structure that underlies all modern
information retrieval systems,
from systems running on a single laptop
to those running in the biggest
commercial search engines.
An inverted index is a data structure
that exploits this sparsity
of the term document matrix that
we talked about in the preceding
segment and allows for
very efficient retrieval.
It's essentially without peer as the data
structure used in information retrieval
systems.
So let me go through what's
in an inverted index.
So for each term,
each word, we must store a list of all
the documents that contain the word.
Let's identify each document by a docID,
which is just a document serial number.
So you can think of it starting
with the first document called one,
then two, three, etc.
And then, the question is what
data structure should we use?
I mean, one idea might be to use
fixed arrays, like the vectors there
in the term document matrix,
but that's very inefficient.
Because while for some words,
they'll appear in a lot of documents,
other words will appear
in very few documents.
Moreover, there are perhaps other problems
if we think about a dynamic index, where
some documents are added later on that
then we have more documents that changed.
Then we'll have difficult things
in adjusting our vector sizes.
For these reasons, one way or
another, we need to use variable size
lists to store the documents
in which a word occurs.
And instead,
the information retrieval terminology,
these lists are called postings lists.
Postings lists traditionally were
usually stored on disks, but
that may not be the case now for
big search engines.
And if you're storing
postings lists on disks,
the right way to store them is as one
continuous run of postings because that
gives the most efficient method of
then being able to load them off disk
back into memory when you're interested
in the postings from a particular word.
In memory, a postings list can be
represented as a data structure,
like a linked list or
variable length's arrays,
with some obvious tradeoffs in
the size versus the ease of insertion.
So the data structure
that we end up with for
an inverted index is like
the one that I'm showing here.
So we have the terms that are in any of
our documents, and then for each term,
we've then got a pointer to a postings
list that is then giving the different
documents, which are described by
their document ID in which it occurs.
Okay, so one occurrence of a word document
pair is referred to as a posting,
and the sum of all of the postings list
are then referred to as the postings.
And so over all then, we have
the parts of on the left hand side,
we have the dictionary.
And then on the right hand side,
we have the postings.
And a property of the postings is
that they're sorted by document ID,
and very soon now,
we'll explain why that's essential.
So these two data structures,
the dictionary and
the postings have somewhat
different statuses.
Because in global size,
the dictionary is relatively small,
but it's normally essential
that it's in memory.
Whereas the postings are large,
but at least for something like
a small scale enterprise search engine,
these will normally be stored on disk.
Let me move now to how
an inverted index is constructed.
So, the starting off point is we have
a bunch of documents to be indexed, and
each of those documents we'll think
of as being a sequence of characters.
We'll assume that we've already dealt
with, perhaps by someone else's software,
conversion from PDF from Microsoft Word
documents and things like that.
So then we're going to go through
first some pre-processing steps.
So we need a tokenizer that turns the
document into a sequence of word tokens,
which are the basic units of indexing.
But we often don't index exactly the words
that are contained in the document.
There might be various linguistic
modules that in some way
modify the tokens to put them
into some kind of canonical form.
So for instance, here,
we're saying that for friends here,
it's being both lowercased and is being
stemmed to remove the s plural ending.
Okay, so then it's those modified tokens,
which will be fed to the index which
is the thing that builds the inverted
index that I was just talking about.
So here's the inverted index.
And it's this step here of the indexer
that is the main thing that I want to
talk about.
But let me first just briefly mention
those initial stages of text processing.
So, in just a fraction more detail,
the things that happen in those initial
stages is firstly, tokenizations.
That's just how we decide to cut
the character sequence into word tokens.
And there are various issues there.
There are punctuation that
come up against words,
how to treat possessives,
hyphenated terms, and
all that kind of stuff that we
can talk about in more detail.
Then normalization was this issue that
while certain things like USA with and
without the dots, you probably
want to treat as the same term.
And map both text and the query terms to
the same form, so that they will match.
You might want to do other kinds
of mapping, such as stemming, so
the authorize and authorization are both
being mapped to the same stem, so
that they straightforwardly
match in a query.
And finally, you may not want to
index at all the most common words.
Traditionally, many search engines have
left out very common words, like the,
a, to, and of from the indexing.
It's not clear that in the modern
world when our amount of storage is so
vast that that's such a good idea because
there are queries that you might like to
do, such as for the song To Be Or Not To
Be, where you really need the stop words.
And it turns out that with modern indexes,
it's not that inefficient to store them.
Okay, now let's go through in
detail how the indexer goes from
the sequence of perhaps normalized
tokens to building an inverted index.
So for this example, we're assuming we
have two documents, Doc 1 and Doc 2 here.
So there are key sequence of
steps that we go through.
So our input is that we
have the sequence of tokens
of the first document in the order that
they come in the text and the sequence of
tokens of the second document in
the order in which they come in the text.
So the first step is that we do a sort,
and
we sort as primary key by the terms,
putting them in alphabetical order.
So here we have this
alphabetical list of terms.
And if we have the same term
appearing in multiple documents,
we do a second resort by the document ID.
So the word Caesar appears twice,
once in document ID one and
twice in document ID two.
And we're sorting it
secondarily by document id.
And so that's a core and
expensive indexing step.
Once we've got that far,
what we then do is essentially
a consolidation of what we
found over here on the right.
So we take that, here it is again, and
multiple entries in a single
document are merged.
So that's the two instances of Caesar,
and they're just treated as one.
And then we also merge all instances
of a particular term, and so
then we re-represent that as over here.
So we say we have
the dictionary entry Caesar,
we record its total
frequency in the collection.
I'll come back to that a bit later.
And then we build for
it the postings list, which is the list
of documents in which it occurs.
And straightforwardly, because of
a consequence of our sort in the previous
step that this postings list is itself
going to be sorted by the document ID.
So thinking about the size of
inverted index, we can think for
a minute about where do we pay in storage?
So we pay some amount for
the list of terms in the accounts, but the
number of terms will be relatively modest.
In our example beforehand,
there were 500,000 terms.
We pay for a pointer or two that
identifies where the postings list are,
but again,
that's of the order of 500,000 things.
And then we pay for
the actual postings list themselves.
And these postings lists
are by far the biggest part.
But even then, they're bounded by the size
of the number of tokens in the collection.
So in our example before of the million
documents with an average length 1,000
words, we're sill less than 1 billion
items there, and so storage is manageable.
So when we are actually
building an efficient
IR system implementation,
we think further about these questions.
We think about how can we make
the index as efficient as
possible through retrieval.
And how can we minimize
the storage on both sides of this,
both on this side and this side,
in terms of various sorts of compression?
We're not going to get into
the details of that now, but
what I hope you can start to
see is that the inverted index
gives an efficient basis on which
to do retrieval operations.
And that's something that we'll talk
about in more detail in the next segment.
But at any rate, now you know the
underlying data structure, it's really not
that complex, that underlies all
modern information retrieval systems.